+++
title = "Azure Event Hubs"
availability = "v1.0+"
maintainer = "Community"
description = "Scale applications based on Azure Event Hubs."
go_file = "azure_eventhub_scaler"
+++

### Trigger Specification

This specification describes the `azure-eventhub` trigger for Azure Event Hubs.

```yaml
triggers:
- type: azure-eventhub
  metadata:
    connectionFromEnv: EVENTHUB_CONNECTIONSTRING_ENV_NAME
    storageConnectionFromEnv: STORAGE_CONNECTIONSTRING_ENV_NAME
    consumerGroup: $Default
    unprocessedEventThreshold: '64'
    activationUnprocessedEventThreshold: '10'
    blobContainer: 'name_of_container'
    # Optional (Default: AzurePublicCloud)
    cloud: Private
    # Required when cloud = Private
    endpointSuffix: servicebus.airgap.example
    # Required when cloud = Private
    storageEndpointSuffix: airgap.example
    # Required when cloud = Private.
    activeDirectoryEndpoint: https://login.airgap.example/
    # Required when cloud = Private.
    eventHubResourceURL: https://eventhubs.airgap.example/
    # Required when using pod identity authentication with blob storage
    storageAccountName: 'name_of_account'
```

**Parameter list:**

- `connectionFromEnv` - Name of the environment variable your deployment uses to get the connection string appended with `EntityPath=<event_hub_name>`.
- `storageConnectionFromEnv` - Name of the environment variable that provides connection string for Azure Storage Account to store checkpoint. As of now the Event Hub scaler only reads from Azure Blob Storage. (Only required when not using pod identity)
- `consumerGroup` - Consumer group of Azure Event Hub consumer. (default: `$default`, Optional)
- `unprocessedEventThreshold` - Average target value to trigger scaling actions. (Default: `64`, Optional)
- `activationUnprocessedEventThreshold` - Target value for activating the scaler. Learn more about activation [here](./../concepts/scaling-deployments.md#activating-and-scaling-thresholds).(Default: `0`, Optional)
- `blobContainer` - Container name to store checkpoint. This is needed for every `checkpointStrategy` except of `AzureFunction`. With Azure Functions the `blobContainer` is autogenerated and cannot be overridden.
- `storageAccountName` - Account name for blob storage used for checkpoints. The storage account name is the first part in the hostname of a Blob Storage endpoint. E.g.: for `examplename.blob.core.windows.net` the account name is `examplename`. The endpoint is automatically configured based on the `cloud` environment set. (Required when using pod identity authentication in the absence of a connection string for `storageConnectionFromEnv`)
- `checkpointStrategy` - configure the checkpoint behaviour of different Event Hub SDKs. (Values: `azureFunction`, `blobMetadata`, `goSdk`, default: `""`, Optional)
    - `azureFunction` - Suitable for Azure Functions & Azure WebJobs SDK. This is the default setting, when `blobcontainer` is not specified.
    - `blobMetadata` - For all implementations that store checkpoint information on blob metadata such as current C#, Python, Java and JavaScript Event Hub SDKs.
    - `goSdk` - For all implementations using the [Golang SDK](https://github.com/Azure/azure-event-hubs-go)'s checkpointing, for example Dapr.
    - When no checkpoint strategy is specified, the Event Hub scaler will use backwards compatibility and able to scale older implementations of C#, Python or Java Event Hub SDKs. (see "Legacy checkpointing"). If this behaviour should be used, `blobContainer` is also required.
- `cloud` - Name of the cloud environment that the Event Hub belongs to. (Values: `AzurePublicCloud`, `AzureUSGovernmentCloud`, `AzureChinaCloud`, `AzureGermanCloud`, `Private`, Default: `AzurePublicCloud`, Optional)
- `endpointSuffix` - Service Bus endpoint suffix of the cloud environment. (Required when `cloud` is set to `Private`, e.g. `servicebus.cloudapi.de` for `AzureGermanCloud`).
- `storageEndpointSuffix` - Blob Storage endpoint of the cloud environment. (Required when `cloud` is set to `Private`, e.g. `airgap.example`. Do not include the `blob` part of the endpoint.)
- `activeDirectoryEndpoint` - Active Directory endpoint of the cloud environment. (Required when `cloud` is set to `Private`, e.g. `https://login.microsoftonline.de/` for `AzureGermanCloud`).
- `eventHubResourceURL` - Event Hub resource URL of the cloud environment. (Required when `cloud` is set to `Private`, e.g. `https://eventhubs.azure.net/` for known Azure Clouds).

> 💡 Learn more about the checkpointing behaviour in this [section](#checkpointing-behaviour).

> 💡 The Azure Storage connection string is not compatible with connection string created from a Shared Access Signature.
### Authentication Parameters

The common way of authenticating to Azure Event Hub is by using the connection string. However, you can use [Pod Identity](https://azure.github.io/aad-pod-identity/docs/demo/standard_walkthrough/) if you host your cluster in Azure AKS, and if have configured it to support Pod Identity.

To use Pod Identity, you have to add a [TriggerAuthentication](https://keda.sh/docs/2.0/concepts/authentication/#re-use-credentials-and-delegate-auth-with-triggerauthentication) and configure it to use Pod Identity like so:

```
apiVersion: keda.sh/v1alpha1
kind: TriggerAuthentication
metadata:
  name: nameOfTriggerAuth
  namespace: default
spec:
  podIdentity:
    provider: Azure
```

When you do so, the Event Hub scaler will depend on the existence of two configurations you have to provide: `eventHubNamespace` and `eventHubName` as well as `storageAccountName` if you wish for the Blob Storage client to use the Pod Identity instead of a connection string. 

### Checkpointing Behaviour

The list of available checkpointing strategies can be found in the trigger specification [section](#trigger-specification). The way checkpoints are stored
has changed with updates to the EventHub SDKs.

* **Legacy behaviour:** The older implementations are based on the `EventProcessorHost` client, which stores the checkpoint information as contents of
the storage blob. This is the default behaviour when no `checkpointStrategy` is specified.
This is applicable for the following scenarios:
  - .NET applications using `Microsoft.Azure.EventHubs` NuGet package.
  - Java applications using `azure-eventhubs-eph` package.
  - Python applications using `azure-eventhub` package below v5.

* **Current behaviour:** The newer implementations are based on the `EventProcessorClient`, which stores the checkpoint information as metadata on
the storage blob. This is the behaviour when `checkpointStrategy` is set to `blobMetadata`.
This is applicable for the following scenarios:
  - .NET applications using `Azure.Messaging.EventHubs` NuGet package.
  - Python applications using `azure-eventhub` v5.
  - .NET Azure Functions using `Microsoft.Azure.WebJobs.Extensions.EventHubs` v5.
  - Azure Functions in other languages using `Microsoft.Azure.Functions.ExtensionBundle` v3.

> 💡 `blobContainer` name is required for applications following legacy behaviour.

> 💡 Users should set `blobContainer` to `azure-webjobs-eventhub` for Azure Functions using `blobMetadata` as `checkpointStrategy`.

### Example

```yaml
apiVersion: keda.sh/v1alpha1
kind: ScaledObject
metadata:
  name: azure-eventhub-scaledobject
  namespace: default
spec:
  scaleTargetRef:
    name: azureeventhub-function
  triggers:
  - type: azure-eventhub
    metadata:
      # Required
      storageConnectionFromEnv: AzureWebJobsStorage
      # Required if not using Pod Identity
      connectionFromEnv: EventHub
      # Required if using Pod Identity
      eventHubNamespace: AzureEventHubNameSpace
      eventHubName: NameOfTheEventHub
# Optional
      consumerGroup: $Default # default: $Default
      unprocessedEventThreshold: '64' # default 64 events.
      blobContainer: ehcontainer
```
